it took us over 3 years to build a $500
PC that could beat the PlayStation 5 and
even then there were some compromises
and now we're conspiring to murder the
PS5 Pro in less than a week it shouldn't
be that hard I mean that $200 price bump
that everyone is angry about frees up a
lot of money for our budget except for
one small problem David while $200 is
certainly a lot of money it doesn't buy
that much these days and while we could
have taken the easy path and just thrown
a better GPU into our original killer
this is LTT we don't play on easy mode
when we're done we're going to have
upgraded Graphics more features a case
that doesn't look straight out of the
Fallout universe and the same or better
performance than the PS5 Pro but be
warned this ain't going to be a smooth
ride unlike this smooth segue to our
sponsor shut up oh that's my boss
yeah okay Ridge if you're dreading the
giftgiving season let Ridge help you out
with finding that perfect present now
for even less that's right their holiday
sale is live and you can save up to 47%
just by clicking our Link in the video
[Music]
description I'm not going to lie it was
pretty cool when I heard the PS5 killer
mentioned by By the Mark cery lead
system architect on the PS4 and PS5 even
if he was being kind of salty about it I
mean to be clear I think he recognized
that our Declaration of victory was
obviously tongue and cheek and that we
do fully appreciate the gaming value
that's on display from the PS5 Hardware
but he clearly still felt the need to
call us out on shortcuts that we used
like the fact that we used a secondhand
motherboard in our system while
comparing it to a brand new disc based
PS5 but here's what you got wrong Mary
my guy it was all used parts not just to
use motherboard so wait no that's worse
um and Mr CER wasn't the only one to
take issue with that comparison many
commenters accused us of giving an
unfair advantage to team PC but as you
would expect from any coverage of this
topic the angry comments came from the
other side too with many of you accusing
us a favoring team console lonus you
said you didn't Place enough value on
the extra flexibility of the PC on the
free online play or the cheaper larger
game library but guys look not every
video can be about every topic and today
our goal is straightforward we are going
to beat the PS5 Pro in visual Fidelity
and frame rate at the same price we are
still going to allow secondhand parts
because yes Mark we do need shortcuts to
beat your wonderful machine but but we
are going to uncut as many other Corners
as possible which means getting the
absolute most out of every penny we
spend starting with our CPU the Intel
Core i5 12400 F and I can already hear
you saying lonus Intel for gaming and
yeah to be clear the AMD 5600 x would
have been our ideal pick and if they
were priced identically we would have
gone team red just like Sony did for the
PS5 Pro but when we can save about $30
and still get a better CPU than what's
in any version of Sony's white monolith
it's kind of a no-brainer once again we
aren't going with the exact specs of the
machine we're competing against we've
actually got two fewer processing cores
but our cores are more powerful than
Sony's meaning that in gaming we should
come out ahead and the included cooler
that's a nice little bonus for
additional
savings the leap over to team blue comes
with other benefits as well now that the
LGA 1700 platform has been out for a few
years there are some cheap motherboards
out there like this ASRock b6m hdv that
we found for under
$40 now you don't need to go for this
one in particular in fact if it wasn't
for the outstanding deal we got we would
have preferred something with a couple
of Gen 4 nvme slots and built-in Wi-Fi
but going used means you need to be
flexible and snag whatever works and is
cheap but hey at least being b660 it
does support higher speed XMP memory
kits like this one this our 16 gig kit
of gskill rip jaw 5 now it's worth
noting that because of our CPU choice we
could have gone with ddr5 and a ddr5
motherboard but this kit was just 20
bucks and every penny counts especially
now that we need to match the PS5 PR's 2
terabytes of
storage and we did or at least we were
supposed to this is 1 tab it was marked
in inventory as 2 tab we're still
counting the price of a 2 terab 1
against our total I see okay now you
probably noticed this is a pretty decent
looking SSD last time around we didn't
have a high-end SSD and we Justified our
choice by pointing out that it doesn't
really have an impact on real world
gaming performance but this time we're
challenging ourselves to do better and
we found something that meets Sony's
minimum recommended requirements for a
secondary drive and we went with the WD
black SN 850x which we found for a
little under $75 and which happens to be
Tom's Hardware's pick for best PS5 SSD
though it should be noted that there are
other options out there at very
reasonable
prices you smell that that's the smell
of a right angle get it cuz we didn't
cut the corner anymore uh anyway for our
case we chose this perfectly decent
midsize NZXT h510 that we found for $30
on Facebook Marketplace okay eagle eyes
it's not the exact same one but come on
what's the point of us buying that black
one that someone else could use when we
have this white one sitting in our
warehouse and besides the point is not
the exact case there are a ton of
options out there around this price
point including some much more fun ones
if you don't mind rolling the dice we
also found some older model cases that
have support for an optical drive if
that's your thing but we won't need one
this time around because uh the PS5 Pro
doesn't have one either thanks for the
free right angle comrades of K
karagi when it comes to raw power there
are any number of power supplies that
could do the job but we didn't want a
shoddy heartbeat for our Sony Slayer
here so after looking through a number
of reputable units at the right price we
settled on this Corsair cx750 for
$35 750 watts yeah that sounds kind of
Overkill considering that the PS5 Pro
draws less than half of that but we're
going to need it to power a GPU that can
beat the pro which I guess brings us
perfectly to the star of any good gaming
PC and also the star of the PS5 Pro if
you consider that the GPU changes are
the only ones that really impact
performance Sony made a big deal out of
the big three larger GPU with 45% better
raw performance more advanced rracing
hardware and a new AI driven upscaling
that they call pssr ever since the
announcement I've been very eager to get
my hands on this bad boy to see what
kind of pie C card that's going to
translate to in the real world we can
make some guesses the closest comparison
could be a downclocked 7800 XT but the
not yet seen Ray tracing hardware and
custom better than FSR but not quite
dlss upscaling makes us wonder if we're
going to need to wait for amd's 8000
series for a true equivalent one way to
avoid giving up features would be to go
for an Nvidia RTX 470 because as digital
Foundry pointed out its feature set more
closely matches the new console but when
it came to decision time we felt that
this XFX quick 7800 XT with its higher
raw performance would make up for the
lack of shiny features and help us
secure another win for team PC what are
we looking at for our total
$655 wait really that leaves enough for
a sketchy Windows key that 8bit do
controller we checked out recently and
even some stick locks from LTT store.com
to cover those precious analog nubb
during transport but uh I couldn't help
noticing there's still no Wi-fi 7 H okay
well that's a bit of a corner isn't it
but but hold on if we built this machine
using the absolute lowest prices we
found scrapyard War style maybe we could
get it at a lower price
$535 not bad that's a potential
$165 of budget to play with for a Wi-Fi
card and I don't know other stuff but
would you use the money for lers that's
a tough question cuz you're not going to
go up another class of GPU and you could
upgrade your CPU but that's probably not
going to affect gaming performance that
much I think the best use of it that's a
pretty well-rounded system probably just
go for some games speaking of let's do a
side by side how close are we here I
definitely am seeing some weird moare in
my rug me as well oh you are too yeah
right now I've set our PC to the PS5
raid Trace performance mode which is the
ideal way to play on PS5 base but we
probably want to mess with the settings
a little bit to get a little more visual
Fidelity and see what we can squeeze out
um question for you where's oh yeah no
we're still getting some Popin from the
confetti it looks about the same on both
of them honestly when we did the short
circuit on the PS5 Pro I didn't find
that the PS5 and the pro looked that
different in this game and I'm having a
hard time picking anything oh the grass
your grass is noticeably higher Fidelity
than mine yeah okay if I want to catch
up I'm going have to change that nothing
here looks like it's going to help with
that all I can really do is I think it's
just resolution and FSR so FSR will be
in display oh w w w w wo wo interesting
does it look closer to yours right now
yeah it cuz we looked I SW I swear when
we were looking at before it
was hold on okay I'm going back oh now
it's poo poo again that's so interesting
it's so blurry what do I have to change
to make it operate like it does in the
menu look at this am I supposed to be
able to see what I'm changing
no definitely not we're definitely
getting 1% lows below 60 raate tracing
is on which is definitely not the 7800
xt's you know
Forte but that's the trade-off I think
in this game we're going to have to say
there's an advantage for the PS5 Pro it
is an exceptionally well optimized game
even on the base PS5 so the PS5 Pro just
gets that extra little bit however with
that said if you had me blind taste test
these
I would not object to either of them
this is a great experience if you want
to play Rift apart I watched something
that I've been curious to see for myself
and I would be able to tell the
difference with pssr for one big issue
which is some of its upscaling looks
like it's moving if you look at those
lines in the deck you can see them kind
of like moving and they're not supposed
to be like they're supposed to be
stationary oh okay so hold on a
second see yours are just stationary
so there's motion artifacting or
something I saw it in a digital Foundry
video and I've been curious to see that
so we've got some advantages and
disadvantages both ways yes I'm just
looking at the confetti in there inside
yeah I think mine is just going a crap
FSR has no idea what to do with it it's
pretty Bonkers yeah there's a lot of
motion artifacts in it and it's clear
that the PS5 Pros upscaling is doing a
much better job here like it's really
hard but if you can catch one with your
eye and try to follow it around you can
follow a piece of confetti around yours
mine good luck yeah that's just a
garbled mess yeah it's pretty bad
overall the motion is still there it's
moving clockwise or whatever but those
are individual objects and that's just
it's shredded almost looking my foliage
doesn't look way worse than yours here
though oh my trees do though that was
background yeah the background trees
look so flat we I think this is an L I
think the PS5 prob might take the win on
this one I have everything set to high
but I think we're going to want to mess
with the settings again I think your
menu looks better though like
substantially oh oh would you like to
enable the pro rendering mode here we
go yes we reset these displays right
before we started and when we were using
them for PS5 versus PS5 Pro on short
circuit they looked the same M I thought
Windows 11 each chir was supposed to be
good
[Laughter]
you just said you liked mine better
that's true hey did I load first I think
you might have loaded faster than the
PS5 Pro got him oh no just
kiding between the
two wow that's remarkably
close feel like your hair is better but
maybe I'm just at an angle it's true I
think your textures are
worse that's pretty if they are it's not
by much dude I think like the photos are
a little bit clearer here I don't know
if that's a pssr thing cuz it looks like
it's doing some weird work on their
shirts yeah dude I would rather have the
softer photo than the like shimmery line
on it it was distracting are you getting
a good solid 60 FPS oh yeah this is very
60 FPS e me too looks like your 1% lows
are a little bit lower but I wouldn't be
able to tell not with any kind of
variable refresh rate the fact that we
can be this close to the screen and not
tell the difference I think tells the
story yeah they both look great they
both look fantastic I think we could
call this a close enough yeah I think we
could probably tweak settings and get it
a little bit better but you're already
at your performance threshold so yeah I
think this is as good as it's going to
get uh wow this is not good oh wow yeah
you're 40ish I'm not even no I don't
even think I believe what frame do is
saying dude touch
this oh yeah that's like sub30 way
that's way this is bad the the the
pacing here is terrible turn off your
raate tracing you know what I'm going to
turn vsync off and see if that helps
yeah that helps a lot okay okay now it
feels like what it says it is the thing
about vsync is if you dip below the
target frame rate in many cases it will
actually have to dip even lower in order
to ensure smooth delivery of frames and
if you are oscillating between them it
can feel extremely stuttery worse than
if you just didn't have it at all and in
this case this was clearly the right
play I'm getting a little bit of tearing
but this is way smoother it doesn't look
as smooth as yours
though once again your
HDR pops so much more than mine and for
those of you looking at frame view up
here and doubting that HDR is working my
menu pops like HDR is definitely on on
both of these displays it says HDR mode
right here Asus gaming HDR
trust me we reset them right before we
started we did learn when we did the
last PS5 killer that Intel's
implementation of HDR just plane didn't
work because there's a lot of
proprietary nonsense that both AMD and
Nvidia have baked into their drivers to
get the bloody thing working so we could
be seeing some of that here it could
also be that Windows HDR just plane
isn't that great I'm curious kind of
come stand on that semicircle want look
at the background cuz I getting a lot of
that motion upscaling crap in the in the
background again yours looks a lot more
stable no mine's clean but I think you
need to turn down some settings to get
to
yeah
okay I don't like pssr I think it looks
bad like look at this tree am I crazy is
that like that's no you're not crazy
that's a lot worse than mine have a look
I expected this to be better than FSR
and I think you know well it is better
than FSR but it's not better than just
if you aren't using as much FSR that's
fair I have a more powerful GPU than you
yes however it's pretty clear that I'm
not getting an even 60 FPS and honestly
all things considered I'd probably take
that gaming experience really hey I mean
here try it that's try swapsies oh yeah
all right and I'm not looking at this
going wow what a huge difference in
visual Fidelity when I'm actually
playing the game if I'm not sitting in
pixel
peeping now these are both more than
adequate I would be fine with either of
these I think I would be prepared
without changing one setting at a time
and rebooting the whole game I think I'd
be prepared to call this one pretty much
a tie
yeah it's not quite there I don't think
we're quite there but it's pretty close
it's pretty close let's close this out
by answering some questions is the PS5
Pro as bad of value as people are making
it out to be well I think that depends
who you are if you have a 1080p display
absolutely do not buy this machine if
you have a 4K display though and a base
PS5 you could get anywhere from 250 to
even more for your current machine
meaning the upgrade is going to cost you
$350 to
$450 that is a pretty tough sell the PS5
Pro definitely looks better but from TV
distance I feel like like only the
Discerning of gamers are going to easily
pick the pro out of a lineup with that
said if you're coming into the
PlayStation 5 ecosystem fresh it's
undoubtedly the better machine it's the
definitive PlayStation 5 experience and
for $250 more it's no worse of a deal as
we just showed than spending another 250
bucks on a gaming PC for better Fidelity
because I don't really think that our
extra couple hundred bucks blew away
what Sony was able to do with the extra
budget I wouldn't judge you then for
going for the PS5 Pro but just be aware
that you'll have to factor in an
external disc drive if you want to get
the best deals on games as we showed
recently it's definitely worth the
investment if you buy more than a small
handful of games each generation the
other big question is PS5 Pro versus our
PS5 Pro killer PC well if you're the buy
everything new sort this machine is
going to run you around $900 before tax
we're going to have links to all the
parts in the video description now over
time you might make up that difference
in cheaper games and extra utility but
not everybody has a couple hundred extra
dollars up front which means that the
choice is not exactly clear as for our
secondhand machine well I think there's
a ton of value here I love this machine
I love this configuration and I would
strongly recommend scrapyard Waring
yourself a kick ass gaming rig like this
but before Mark Cy calls me out in
another interview I fully acknowledge
that yeah we killed the PS5 Pro but we
also threw sand in its eyes before the
fight even started so uh pocket sponsor
yeah manscaped while November may be the
time we've all got turkey on our minds
don't forget there's only one bird that
really needs grooming enter manscapes
performance package 5.0 Ultra it
includes the lawnmower 5.0 Ultra for
some below theb trimming with its two
interchangeable blades the weed whacker
2.0 for your ears and nose and even
their crop Soother and crop preserver
lotions for your aftercut care to make
it even better manscape includes their
boxers 2.0 and shed 2.0 travel bag for
free make sure your lawn is properly
mowed this season check out the
performance package 5.0 Ultra at
manscape.com
lt20 and use code lt20 for 20% off and
free shipping if you guys liked watching
us kill the pro and haven't seen us
murder the original PS5 why don't you
check out that video it's a surprisingly
different machine